Edit the docs with the latest realisation where a BOM is complete in itself and needs no AABB. Even empty buffers or EmptySpaceLines was found out to be redundant earlier. Thus as time goes on we start removing unnecessary scaffolding. 
 
 Its AD_Org is its DISC. There is no Building-Floor-LEAF hierachy because if it has a parent it is not the starting level. If it has no child it is a LEAF. That classify quite whatever level it is. No need to say it is an envelope or space or container. ProductCategory is just allowing for grouping of choices.

ProjectOrderBLueprint is drifting too much. Its banner is not sharp. ITs real content begins at 'What is on the way (this document).' Remove all before it.

Its banner should be "An ERP is already a matured compilation of events. Thus define construction as such" . Deduce what can be its opening.

Remove 'The order library as asset.' and 'Relationship to existing patterns: ' sections. Not really saying anything relevant. 1.1 and 1.2 is what the gist is about. Testing is not needed here. 5.1 4D Schedule — Topological Sort of BOM Tree onwards not needed as clutter redundanct. In between try to digest it and clarify further and triage into better arranged specs. Ask me if needed. Its core is about C_Project dimension is similar in iDempiere which allows costing, doc flow between supplier and customer, cost margin, large scale projects with 1 to many Orders, WIP, Materials on Site. 

Then we got M_Location for grid in a large housing estate to place units and its value ideas but need to align to the C_Project context. Be aware Locator interface with StorageOnHand, WMS, picking, putaway thus may integrate well with 4D thru 7D. In short all seems to be retrofitting ERP into it, but how they eventually takes shape may come in spurts and flashes. This was what the brainstorm about, but need to pick the gems out and rearrange to be coherent.

===

In BBC.md the whole section 1.2 Discipline Routing is not needed. It already in DISC_VALIDATION_SRS. Can link there for details, but its brief must be clear and readable. Again ProductCategory defined under 1. is wrong. DISC is AD_Org. Category is grouping for choice within same group. Hierarchy is deduced how the BOM products, up and down, categorize themselves. CO_EmptySpace is not in use anymore. Remove even deprecating statements. State what is not what was.

In the 2. Compilation Model, EXTRACTED is RosettaStone so not to be here.  Real stuff begins at IFCtoBOM, so tighten up as the rest maybe cluttering.  AABB no longer also. This is where u define the BOM as explained earlier.

Let's go thru this whole crucial foundation paper with me, interview me to format this doc well. U play the role of the specs guy. I am just the subject matter visionary. No more 2 compilation modes. Things are actually very smooth and simple from our above resolution of what is a BOM without the additional terms. I feel ERP is already a perfect language for us, and the docs sometimes drift wildly not providing the same understanding.

So go thru each doc and check with me if u feel need my direction again
