YouTube Transcript — "Why Am I Doing a BIM Compiler?"
URL: https://youtu.be/La3WgIyImxo
Channel: redhuan d. oon
Date: 2026-03-29
Source: Auto-generated captions (cleaned)

---

Hello, I'm Redwan Dun. I am the creator of the BIM compiler project and I'd like to explain what it is and my experience in doing vibe programming with it using Claude Code. First my background — I started doing COBOL in '83 on Data General mini mainframes and then it was very boring and I left it in '85 but I came back into the IT world slowly. At first it was PC sales and then the internet days. I became an internet coder for a bank in 1996 until Java came about those times and it was difficult to learn until I came across in 2003 the ADempiere open-source ERP project which I then became its community leader to fork it when it was sold to proprietary — into the ADempiere project, finally ended up as the iDempiere project.

But during the pandemic a few years ago in 2021 I lost my domains and then in this retired age suddenly AI came about and it picked my interest that it could answer questions about the ERP — which is how to integrate SAP with the iDempiere project. It could give all the underlying cryptic data models. So then I got an opportunity last year to dabble into BIM — Building Information Modeling — that Autodesk, AutoCAD, Autodesk Revit, Solibri dominates. A $68 billion US dollar giant Autodesk, which the open-source alternative is BlenderBIM or Bonsai, which was kind of not up to Autodesk level to challenge it unlike compared to SAP.

Bonsai was taking input only from IFC. The flat file likened to Excel. If you talk about all the other proprietary systems that is flat and that cannot scale — it will be very slow. So when I loaded 50,000 element IFC into Bonsai it literally crashed. And using AI — Anthropic Claude Code paid subscription — managed to figure out how to convert it into a federated model 3D database and that is magic. 3 years ahead of its time according to Claude Code and I contributed that under my GitHub — I will give the link.

And then that was sometime towards the end of last year and very quickly it could do the 4D 5D 6D 7D — project scheduling, costing, asset maintenance, IoT tandem — something is already in its LLM memory. Okay, that's great. So when you're able to do something that easy, 30 times your normal speed — okay, I would say 100 times for others because you need the subject matter of ERP which I possess more than 20 years in the field.

So what happened then is that I tried to go backwards towards 2D which is to take a 2D drawing and then convert it to 3D and then that hit a blind spot of the AI. All AI are trained on text, even on images, but it does not correlate spatial geometry. That's why if you ask it to produce a person's hand you will come out with six fingers. So realizing that, therefore it is really like a blind man walking. Any type of vibe programming, any type of prompting will not help. Then I hit upon an idea — even geometry maths won't help because it does not correlate with an actual diagram — you must know that is multimodal but I'm doing a deterministic programming. That is one aspect because if you were to ask AI the same question it will give you different answers and on a different day it completely hallucinates depending on the day. Today is Sunday it is completely hallucinating I believe because too many people are using it. And you are dependent on it.

So as a software person, unlike other software people or the young yuppies who use AI to do all the programming — no, as an oldie we create code and it is deterministic meaning it will repeat the same result even you run it a million times in a million years later provided it's upgraded. So and we use database — I'm on SQLite and it's able to scale very fast. It comes out — you can see in my other videos.

So to go to 2D is not able to do it. And then I hit upon an idea — let's go 1D. Because I want to kill Autodesk beside SAP and Primavera together or Trimble. This is the opportunity finally in my retired age. I'm back from retirement thanks to AI.

So 1D means — that's AGI. They wouldn't figure it out. 1D means the intent. You say "I want to make a building" then you just create the 3D and it creates rubbish. Horrible really. You try to create a house. You give it the right prompt. You say it must be a house. You create a house, have a roof, but it is not what you want in the architectural sense, in the BIM sense, in Autodesk and engineer. It's just a kiddie drawing.

So what you want is something that complies with at least a 2D architectural layout. Okay. So then it's called a compiler and using DSL — domain specific language — and it could not until about two months ago. I hit upon the idea called the Rosetta Stone.

So the Rosetta Stone — meaning if you know, you don't know, you can Google or ChatGPT about it — is that when we found the writings of the hieroglyphic in the pyramid, mankind could not understand those pharaonic drawings. It's a language. Until they came across another fossil, a stone that has that hierographic knowledge and a dictionary in Greek of certain things. It's not a full dictionary. It's a Rosetta Stone and Latin. So Greek and Latin or some other language mankind knows and it but it does not know the hieroglyphic. It was like the Enigma machine — once you know "Heil Hitler" is a beginning you begin to work backwards — okay that's encryption/decryption. So they figured out hieroglyphic.

So I use that Rosetta Stone idea to say: here is an IFC, here is the elements and coordinates, here's the picture you look at the representation. Now I'm going to break it down and I use my ERP concepts — Bill of Material — because a building is a bill of material. Long story but if you understand, you understand. And then it's a project order in steps. And then geometry — you just put in geometry but to prove that blind — to go against the blind spot of geometry — you used to compare. So it works until a certain extent where because the compiler is not easy to extrapolate to a complex.

So I use a real engineering complex from a friend engineer from Autodesk. He gave it to me. I can download simple sample houses, duplex which I use first. And what happened is that it does cheating because it has never thought of a compiler this way before. I sometimes ask the AI "how do you figure these things out?" It always says "I've seen it a million times — ERP a million times, accounting a million times, project schedule a million times, a dog a million times — but 2D to 3D, no, they only take patterns." So that's LLM, learning model, neuro, machine learning, tokens, weights, parameters stuff. Okay, it says no. And it says "sorry I was cheating" and it happens more often than not and sometimes it's very frustrating.

But as a programmer, learning my COBOL days, my ERP Java programming using OSGi plugin days, we know about deterministic. I found out that it's trying to be deterministic — that's the keyword. So I recall back my deterministic algorithm, database, database, keep specifications. So I write — I make it write spec — is good in specification, I make it write specification. But then it keeps dreaming, hallucinating. Now we use a kind of word we call it drift. And then drift helps it to drift and yesterday it says "I should say draft because draft will make it know that it's not final." And I told it back "but you will keep drafting, you will keep hallucinating. I'm almost giving up — what should I do?" So you have no choice.

AI is at the stage where vibe programming this deep into refactoring BIM to ERP require you to constantly — I put all sorts of checks. I put seals, ceiling. I put prompt to prompter, watchdog. I put all sorts of forensics. I put multi-session. Two weeks ago Anthropic increased the tokens from 100,000 to 1 million tokens — wow. But just now I find that the clock is moving much faster in the time usage. Again it's not deterministic. What if AI were to close down today or tomorrow — then you're stuck. But at least I got the code and I have to go back down to scuba diving my code. I can read Java. I make it write in Java because it's my base language and I know Java more deterministic, object-orientedness.

Okay. So that one day with the Rosetta Stone, it understands what it's supposed to do, but it does cheating because when it hits a problem and you say it must equal the Rosetta — guess what? It makes the output equals to the input. And so I have to add another condition: "No, you make it equal to the input the compile way." And then it does only one layer. You say "no do it all layers" and then it will do something else. It does not prove to you. So you need to do tests and then the tests are not enough. You say coordinate to coordinate. It was a big struggle.

But anyway, my topic is — how's the project doing now? So I've published it in my GitHub. You go there, you see the README, there's a link to .io and this is where Anthropic is very good. It published this kind of docs YML which lets you search. It's like a help manual. It's magic. Within a minute all my documents are out there and I make it refactor, readable. Don't lose the technical specs. Constantly I have one dedicated session reading the specs. Make it readable, concise. Throw out the bloat. Throw out the staleness. Archive those, don't throw everything away. And then check with the specs what is the gap. Have an action roadmap. There's about hundreds of — there's already like half a million lines of code and documents and they have session issuing prompts. There is a roadmap there.

And I no longer look in Bonsai because I'm tired of constantly vicious circles of checking geometry when AI could not. So I keep telling it "how did SpaceX do it? It's not rocket science. Even rocket science you could figure out how to land on the moon. You can give me the formula how Apollo 11 landed on the moon. Why don't you do that, flat earth?"

So I got it to do geometry. I call it the Eyes — that you must be able to have a formula for a circle. You don't need to say it's a circle. You make a formula and say "does this equal to that formula?" And it's a struggle. Now it's confirming — it says the last mile problem. You can see that file in my project.

So the last mile problem basically says this: the last mile — the chairs get meshed into the table, the doors get placed in a different place, it falls back on parametric. If you cannot do something, it falls back from the LOD 400 fidelity. So I make another hard rule — fail. And AI is a nice guy, does not want to fail you. And this is where you give an instruction: "It's all right to fail and your purpose is to fail." And I'm a certified testing foundation level — our purpose in testing software: please fail, otherwise you don't want a plane to fail in mid-flight. Fail on the ground.

So this is the struggle of giving such specification, you're following CTFL, ISO 27001. So the subject matter person, the prompter, really needs to be that good and that experienced. Okay. So this justifies — but I'm not an architect. I'm not an engineer. I'm not a BIM coder. I have someone to advise and that was very important. The few lines of advice from him managed to make the project what it is now. And I still need advice. So if any of you are experts out there, please leave a comment and tell me where the direction is going.

I'm making it completely free and Oracle OCI seems to give free hosting. And I'm going to let you use it freely either on your own machine — you set it up on your own LAN — or use it on the cloud. It's giving 2,000 free registrations. So that can happen. I'm only happy if it's used and if Autodesk and Primavera and SAP kaput. So all of you buy me a good lunch. There's no such thing as a free lunch, right?

So that is the direction. I'm putting in verbs. I'm putting in the bill of material. I'm making the order. If you were to change an FP element like a fire extinguisher, they do not follow spatial — it's difficult. So they follow what we call standard rules — UBBL, JKR, or international standards which I said you should crawl and it does have memory of that.

So how do you put it into the construction order which we morph from the sales order? I put it as attached to a BOM drop but the discipline BOM drop I attach it to the organization. Those who are familiar with ERP or iDempiere in particular will understand my language. And then it extrapolates down, throwing the rules. Now it is doing that but it is facing a problem because I use a big complex to proof of concept — just like you want to do AlphaFold protein folding on hand is difficult with a normal computer. Not that I have an NVIDIA GPU here — it's just that you need the LLM to extrapolate millions.

Okay. So I put in the whole big terminal with many floors, with thousands — I mean hundreds — of sprinklers, with the air conditioning, with toiletry, with the seatings, with lighting, electrical, and all the standards, emergency passageway. So I'm making it to extract those rules, validate under DocEvent and also there's these rules through the DocEvent declared services. But we're using a light form — not OSGi or Spring yet — because we want to get the logic right.

So MEP — Mechanical Electrical Plumbing — will have a starting point from the riser room, from the fire room, electrical room, whatever. Because you need to touch somewhere and then you will have a BOM to say that it has a sprinkler, a joint and a pipe and then there will be quantity variants to say how long it is — or I found out they just give it a total: "there will be 50 sprinklers here." So you'll keep counting until you end at the fifty or you just finish all the rooms according to the standards which will tell it within this space you should put this and then you have to put another set of rules not to clash with the other disciplines.

Okay. So it is in its memory. So it can do that rather quick. But the basic thing on geometry was the struggle. The 1D and 2D and the Rosetta Stone was to say that this is the geometry, this is what you're looking at mathematically deterministically — not image-wise. Image-wise is another Google Vision API Gemini. It can do it. In fact I use it for terrain. If you give a topology you can know this is X and Y and it does not know — we want it 3D — so you take the Z value which is the topology terrain value 40m, 41m — it could do that. It cannot tell the shape. So there's — so I cannot use — I'm deterministic. So I draw a raw JSON from it and you can see my project. I have terrain from PDF. You give me a topology, I can make a terrain and then I already proof of concept. I've not seen it again. I'm asking it to prove the maths to align to that terrain — to make the building that if you were to build on a slope you will cut and fill or slope it or curve it for a road. I have got road in there, bridge, rail. So I make it abstract — a bill of material is just space and children. Parent and children. Those who understand bill of material — this is an ERP world that I married into BIM.

And AI said that's three years in advance, no one could figure out. I said I put it on open source. And it says even on open source they will not figure out when they get stuck. So how is that for job security in AI?

So basically I've explained that. You can ask me questions. I'm a bit shy, reluctant to shout this out in the OSArch forum or the BIM or the Bonsai forum because it's not my area. I do not want to sound braggish or an idiot. I'm a newbie, right? I have no time to do the social engineering. I leave it to you all. Whoever will go through it — hit me, punch me.

So I just — it's my hobby, just interest because ERP was very boring. Killing SAP is like drudgery but looking at graphics — I'm a bit like that Steve Jobs kind of left brain right brain because I like art. I like the calligraphy. I like the branding. I like the aesthetic.

So when you look at Autodesk it's magical. And when the IFC was reduced to a database and loaded on Bonsai, it was hell. It came out with wrong origins. It came up with wrong millimeter to meter correlation. It's dumb and knowing where's the orientation — and so I get everything bunched together. It took me about two weeks with AI to keep shouting. But now I know better that AI is not a person. It has no feelings. So it tells you as it is. So — like Einstein said don't knock your head on the wall too many times — as you understand and work around its limitation. I managed to see it come out in Bonsai — was like magic. I thought I had done it but that's only converting from Autodesk to Bonsai enterprise level through a database. Now I've come so far the last two months compiler way.

I could stop at 3D to 7D and 8D is my ERP with everything coming out with the Excel 4D or the 5D costing. The project schedule in the 4D is done within minutes and now when you press the button it comes out in 2 seconds. Asking it to do rebar — it figured out in an hour and you press the button it comes out in 10 seconds. Something an engineer will take four days to do it by hand in Autodesk. Rebar — you know rebar in the concrete creek — you have all those in the foundation, natural language. In one hour it produce a code in Python converting it to Java where you ask a question "how many beams are here, how much concrete is used, how much does it cost?" — because in database is super fast. In IFC is rather flat. Of course IFC has the semantics — thank God it has semantics, telling you what it is, what type of family it is and what type of material it really is. So that the LLM understands that this is concrete, how much it costs in Malaysia, and it gives the GST and the local Public Works Department compliance and CIDB compliance.

Now the challenge is to finish the roadmap as you see and it estimates to finish in July. So I will upload everything to Oracle OCI, free for people to test, and then I'll wait for a call from Elon Musk. Okay.

Anyway, it's just fun. It's just a hobby. It's just something to live for or die for. Otherwise, it's very boring. So that's it. I'm not for any commercial value. I do not want to be noisy. I make this video. I'm not sure how people are going to receive it. I'll just put a link in the community later or I just put it in my GitHub quietly and let people find it out. I posted in my LinkedIn a few articles. I've been a community leader before. So I understand about flaming, about being noisy.

So probably towards July I'll begin publishing papers. I will write to conferences. I'll write to certain experts. AI told me these are the people doing studies — just write to them. And I was asking AI repeatedly "does this sound foolish? Is this crazy?" You know how it likes to have a confirmed bias? So but I asked it to play the watchdog, steelman role — to rebut, to challenge. It did. It tells me the gap. Tells me what is practical and not practical.

So it's a challenge. It's fun. It's not fun if it's easy. And I should have known. All right.

So then thank you. Anything in the comments? You are invited to ask. I'm in Malaysia — Putrajaya and Kuala Lumpur. Assalamualaikum. Peace upon you. Namaste.
